This document is about the compressed Nintendo Logo image which must be 
included in a ROM image's header.  Without it, the Gameboy Advance will
refuse to run the ROM.  DevKit Advance does not provide this because it
is a potential nightmare.  However, it turns out that this is not a big
problem at all.

By default, the ROM header provided by crt0.o will not work.  The area
of the header that should contain the Nintendo Logo image is all zeros.  
Fortunately, if you recompile the header (See crtls.txt), change the
NINTENDO_LOGO option in crt0-config.h to 1, and provide a file named
nintendo-logo.S thats contains the proper logo then you are ready to 
go.  This feature is intended for licensed developers who can just copy 
and paste the logo from Nintendo's examples into a file called 
nintendo-logo.S.

Failing that, all flash programmers and multiboot cable utilities used
by hobbiests are capable of patching the header before loading it into
a flash-cart.  So, unless you have to provide a proper ROM image to
Nintendo for testing or manufacture, you should not have any problems.

There is a program called 'headit' which comes with DevKit Advance and
can be used to manipulate the ROM header.  One of its features is the
ability to create nintendo-logo.S from a ROM file.  Asking that someone
abide by the law when using the feature would be stating the obvious.

Why does DevKit Advance not include the logo data?

The logo is not an effective -technical- security method, but it may
provide a useful -legal- one for Nintendo.  In the U.S., there was a
court decision (Sega v Accolade) which takes the teeth out of any
claim Nintendo might have in Trademark or Copyright law to bar the
inclusion of this data, because it is required in order for the system
to work.  But, in other countries the reality may be quite different,
and DevKit Advance is not just used by Americans.

Also, there is a law in the U.S. called the DMCA which is still being
subject to wildly varying intrepretations.  In such an environment, it
is dangerous to do anything which can be construed as "circumventing a
copy protection measure."  Any questions about what is and is not
against the law will be tested in court as lawyers attempt to get the
most aggressive intrepretation possible.

On the Internet we can debate all day long about how the Nintendo logo
data is not a copy protection mechanism, but when you start arguing
with Nintendo it will be in court, and it would cost you money and
time even if you win.

All this makes Nintendo sound like some boogey man, but I do not
believe that at all.  Nintendo is just adding another weapon to the
arsenal it can use against the illegal copying of games, which it
as every right to do, but I have no intention of giving Nintendo a
reason to use this weapon against anyone who uses DevKit Advance.


